# October 28 2020
## Proof of Concept v0.8
Another one down! This version had a few tickets that either I knew would be tough going in, or turned out the be brutal when I thought they'd be easy. Indeed, I've already written three other blog posts while working on this version, so I'm inclined to keep this short. Here's a quick recap:

- **Improved render performance** - Wrote about this already, but this one felt really good to knock out first.
- **Added randomization seed** - Wrote about this as well. Thought it would be easy, turned out being *brutal* because it forced me to recognize and address a couple of other issues. Took tons of deep thought and experimentation, but managed to finish this one as well as two other related tickets all at once.
- **Added redraw transition** - Improving render performance caused the fullscreen redraws to stick out like a sore thumb (time of day change or fog toggle). So I pulled this task in and finished it pretty quickly. The end result is a bit funny looking (especially on higher game speeds), but will work for now.
- **Increased map size** - Not too wild. Did this at the same time as the next one. One issue the larger map did emphasize is the hunter not having very good logic for actually spreading out and exploring the map. Since the hunter ends up returning to camp to sleep most nights, they never end up venturing too far from camp. I'll have to improve that behavior soon.
- **Added procedural map generation** - So instead of porting my procedural map generator Ruby script to Python, I just call the script from Python, get the map rendered as JSON, and load it into my engine. Kinda funny, but saved me a ton of work. Currently, the config of the map generator is set in a way that makes a reasonable, if somewhat boring, map. Needs sprucing up a bit. I'll have to spend a POC version on it some time in the near future.
- **Balanced the game** - I actually didn't end up tweaking too much. I think I messed with the berry bush spawn chance, but that's about it. As currently configured, it seems like the hunter has a very good chance to survive.

There's not a whole lot more to say about this version that I haven't said in other blog posts. It took me almost exactly two weeks, which is great progress given I had some really tricky stuff included.

Welp, see you later.