# July 20 2020
## What the hell am I doing, and why?
Yesterday I was playing Kingdom Two Crowns and found it to be very inspiring. The game takes a very cool approach to colony simulation and management. Without, getting into too much detail (future blog post?), it inspired me to want to create a "game" with a simple world in which a hunter (you know, bow and arrows and all that) could live and try to survive.

So my first thought is: What are all the systems I would need to reasonably simulate the survival of a hunter in an environment? Here are some of the questions that immediately sprung to mind:
* How will the hunger hunt? (needs bow and arrows)
* What will the hunter hunt? (needs rabbits and deer)
* How will the hunter know when to go hunting? (need to simulate hunger)
* Where will the hunter sleep? (needs campsite)
* When will the hunter sleep? (need to simulate energy and day/night cycle)
* What does the hunter do when they're not hungry? (need more complex decision-making)
* How will the hunter navigate their environment? (need a map with terrain and features)
* What happens when the rabbits and deer run out? (need reproduction)

Almost every question I ask suggests even more questions. As I continue to ask more and more questions, I am able to put together a rough idea of all the things I'd need to do to simulate a simple world inhabited by independent and self-interested agents.

My goal, for now, is to have a simple program that I can run continuously to simulate this world and the things living in it, and have some way of observing the changes happening in the world and the actions of the agents living in it. But I'm not limiting myself to any particular outcome; rather, I'm going to let impulse be my guide, and just see where this ends up. The end result, I hope, will be an artistic expression that I can appreciate. And if I appreciate it, then perahps others will, too. :)

## Map generation
I started writing a very basic script that can procedurally generate a 2D ASCII-based map that has ground and water. It's working now, and can output maps that are realistic to an acceptable level (not very ;).

While working on the map generator, I looked into procedural map generation. That's a hell of a rabbit hole (HA, rabbits). Anyway, lots of cool stuff out there, very inspiring, but while it's really tempting to go learn about lots of algorithms and prior research on this topic, my ultimate realization is that if this project is ever going to get anywhere, then I need to keep it SIMPLE for now. So my jank map generation should work fine.

Really, I don't need a procedurally generated map right now, but it's just a little too tempting for me to resist playing with, at the moment. Oops.

I may just end up creating a starting map by hand (or mostly by hand), and use that as a basis to think about building out other systems.

## UI
I haven't decided on what engine or platform this simulation might run on. It could easily run in a proper game engine like Unity or Game Maker Studio, but it could also run as a website in a browser, with the frontend being very basic HTML and the "backend" being client-side Javascript.

As far as what to display, my initial thought is that it would be good to have a view pane that allows you to scroll the map with arrow keys, highlight individual cells of the map to see their contents, and press a button to center on the hunter. In a smaller panel on the side, there could be basic ecosystem info (how many rabbits are there? what time of day is it? what is the hunter's hunger level? what is a particular deer's current goal?). There could also be a panel that displays the contents of the selected cell.

Welp, see you later.