# October 18 2020
## Determinism or the lack thereof
After finishing up the task for improving render performance, I felt like taking a little bit of an easier task to rest my mind before tackling another hard one. I specifically wanted to avoid doing a task pertaining to game time not scaling energy loss correctly. I had already looked into that one a bit, and it was rough. So I also had a task titled "show seed in UI", which is a bit carelessly named; it's not just a matter of showing the seed in the UI, but also adding a seed to the random number generators that I'm using. However, it was still an extremely simple task. 

Or so I thought.

It took me about fifteen minutes to get the code in place to allow the seeding of the random number generators, which I was using two of: Python's builtin random module and numpy's random module. Seeding the the generators was trivial, but when I ran my code using a hard-coded seed, the results were not deterministic. 

At first it seemed like my changes did nothing it all; every time I ran the game, completely different things would happen. Sometimes the hunter would run up, sometimes they'd circle near the camp, sometimes they'd run south. I didn't really notice the hunter ever taking the same exact route. But then I noticed that some things *were* deterministic. For example, I saw that the berry bushes all seemed to be spawning in the same exact spots. I wrote some code to dump the x-y coords of every bush right after spawning them, ran the game multiple times, stored the output from each run, then compared them all: turns out it was the same every time.

I did the same check with rabbits and got the same result. So somehow my initial game state was getting generated in a deterministic way, but at some point when the simulation started progressing, there were opporunities for deviation. Simple enough, I thought. I probably just had some other random library that also need to be seeded.

Well, I search everywhere for any library that might be introducing randomness and came up with nothing. It was at this point that I started feeling something more nefarious (!) was going on, and I began to question my most basic assumptions about how I thought my game was working and how I believed Python worked.

I noticed that for every run of the game, the hunter would always start by going to a particular bush at a particular location, eat their fill of berries, then roam from there. The hunter's initial actions were always perfectly consistent up until a point, then the devations would start. That point was when the "roam" occurred.

So with that being the first point I could identify where a deviation occurred, I started doing all kinds of debugging and outputing of information around that point. I checked all kinds of state about the hunter and the game engine. This went on for a while until I noticed that the event_queue on the engine, which contained about 110 upcoming events for the hunter, rabbits, and berry bushes, was not *always* sorted in the same way. But *sometimes* it was. More than that, most of the time, most of the queue was sorted the same, with only 4-10 events in a slightly different order. And when there were differences, they were always minor differences, like two adjacent events being transposed. I never saw any events in wildly different locations.

This was very suspicious, but I wasn't sure what to make of it. The events were orded by the `time` attribute, which was an epoch time stamp for when the event should occur. Which means that all of the `time` attributes would be different every run of the game.

I think this ended up being a pretty major hangup for me; the fact that for each run of the game, it was literally impossible that I could end up with the exact same game state. The way I was handling time and events in my engine logically precluded the possiblity of having the same state between two runs of the game.

Even so, it stood to reason in my mind that the actual differences in timestamps between runs should be irrelevant because the relative differences should be exactly the same, right? Well, I wrote some code to test that. For each event, I subtracted that event's time from the next event's time to see if the spaces between events were changing in a meaningful way, especially for the events that were sometimes getting transposed.

And what I found is that between two runs, the time delta of two adjacent events would never be the same. Part of the reason for that is that I was permitting an extremely high level of precision in these timestamps. So I thought maybe if I round all of the timestamps to the nearest millisecond, then I'll get a much more deterministic sort. I was pretty confident this was going to change something, and may even fix the entire problem.

Turns out that didn't help. In fact, I couldn't tell if it changed anything at all. At this point, I started to wonder if something strange was going on with how Python sorted classes. I did a little research into this. I had a slight hunch that perhaps Python did some sort of tiered sorting, like when I was sorting by a particular attribute on my class and two instances had the same value, then in those instances Python was falling back on sub-sorting by a second field, such as the instance ID or something. I did some digging, but ultimately came to the conclusion that this isn't the case. Another deadend.

On Saturday, I probably spent five or more hours trying to get to the bottom of this. I was truly wracking (and wrecking) my brain trying to come up with an explanation, let alone a solution.

I allowed myself to sleep on it, and I briefly entertained giving it a total rest on Sunday, and working on a different task instead so that I didn't get burnt out. But I got baited back in. :)

This morning I had an epiphany, but it requires a bit of backstory. I wrote back in July about the event queue system I developed, which used Python's time.time() to determine when events should occur. I used this to govern when the Hunter should eat, when a berry should grow, and so on. Then in September I wrote about the system I build to track in-game time, which I used primarily to allow different times of day to be rendered in different colors. So at this point in the game, I have two different systems for determining when time-related things should happen, one based off epoch time and another based off in-game time (which progressed time by adding a small amount to a number every frame).

It made no sense to have two systems for tracking time like this, and I had been planning on switching everything over to the in-game time system, I just hadn't gotten around to it yet. I had a growing feeling that the indeterminism in the game was the result, somehow, of using the time library, so I figured now was the perfect time to refactor to using in-game time for everything. That way I could knock out two birds with one stone: 1) make the game's time systems uniform, and 2) fix my indeterminism issue.

So I went about refactoring, and it didn't take too long. A bit laborious, but not bad. And what I found is that not only did I knock out the two birds I intended to, but I knocked out a third one as well: 3) fix gametime not scaling energy loss correctly.

Which means that I avoided doing a hard task and choose instead to work on an "easy" task that turned out to be super hard, but fixing the "easy" hard task also fixed the other hard task, as well as fixing another thing that I didn't have a task for. 

What a time.

Welp, see you later.