# August 19 2020
## Roadmap
I have come up with a minimum set of features that I'd like to see in POC v1.0. After assembling the list, I distributed the tasks across four POC minor versions in a way that seemed manageable. Here is the rough composition of the POC versions:

* **v0.4** - Addresses some tech debt and makes it easier for me to see what's happening under the hood of the game. Also adds hunger system and death.
* **v0.5** - Adds first UI elements, fog of war, and day/night cycle.
* **v0.6** - Adds hunter's camp, hunter's ability to sleep, and hunter's bow/arrow as well as the ability to shoot.
* **v0.7** - Adds rabbit hunting and general hunter AI improvements.

Once these four versions are completed, the hunter will be able to eat, starve to death if they don't eat enough, forage for berries, hunt rabbits with a bow and arrow, sleep at their camp at night, and explore the fog of war. A while ago I wrote about how eventually I'll get the game to a point where I can leave the game running over night, and see if the hunter survives until the morning. I feel that, with this feature set, I'll have meaningfully accomplished that goal.

Wolves are the most notable exclusion from the v1.0 feature set. While I would love to include wolves in v1.0, if I were to add them I'd have to add several other systems: wolves, ranged combat, melee combat, hunter knife, more robust health system, bandaging/healing, fear/fleeing, and possibly others. By the time I've completed v0.7, I will probably have other higher priorities, such as improving the UI and making the whole thing more game-like (main menu screen, ability to tweak the games initial state, procedurally-generated map). With that being the case, I need to reign in my impulses.

I anticipate these four POC versions to take 1.5-2 months.

Welp, see you later.