# July 29  2020
## Game loops
As I mentioned in my last post, the game loop was turn-based. The game state would only progress when the player entered a key stroke. I have since updated the engine to be realtime, running at roughly 60 FPS (though it's impossible to tell from looking at it).

I did a bit of research on how main game loops are traditionally set up. I found [a great resource](https://gameprogrammingpatterns.com/game-loop.html) that went into a lot of detail about the different types of game loop. For example, you can have your main game loop run as quickly as possible (no sleeps), but this only really works if you know the exact hardware your game will be running on. There were a few others, but the one I settled on was a simple one: a while loop where you sleep a variable amount of time so that each iteration takes roughly 16ms, which results in the game updating 60 times per second. I ended up structuring it slightly differently than the web page suggested, but it's the same idea.

It remains to be seen whether or not I'll need to adjust the game loop to use one of the other types. This should be a good starting point, though.

## AI
Since my game loop was realtime, I moved on to adding my first living thing to the game: a rabbit. I added a Rabbit class to represent the rabbit on the map and store data relating to it, but it also needed some rabbit-y behavior, so I added a RabbitAI class as well. I made the initial AI dead simple: simply pick a random direction and move one cell.

I added the AI to the rabbit and set it to "perform" once per game loop. I knew this was going to be too fast, but the result was funnier than I expected. With the game loop updating 60 times per second, the rabbit basically went berzerk pacing back and forth. Sometimes it would happen to go the same direction many times in a row, causing it to haul ass off the map.

I needed a way to have the game update frequently but not necessarily update all entities in the game frequently. I settled on creating an event queue in the engine. Any time an entity performs an action, it checks to see if it should perform another. If so, it enqueues the same event again a certain amount of time in the future (such as a few seconds). I keep the event queue sorted, so as the engine runs it can simply pop things off the top until it has processed all events that are "in the past". Once it has done that, it continues. In order for this chain reaction of events to work, though, I have to kick it off somehow. To do that, when the game initializes, I simply pre-seed the event queue with some events for the living entities.

I haven't tested this system extensively, but it works initially and it seems like a reasonable idea conceptually.

## Progress
I've nearly completed all of my tasks for POC v0.2. The two tasks remaining I may end up not doing or putting off until later, because I'm not sure it would make much sense to do them now. I'm not sure yet.

Welp, see you later.