# August 10 2020
## Refactor
I finally finished the refactor away from using numpy. I covered my reasoning for doing this in my last post. 

It was not a particularly fun refactor, though it was really that difficult, either. Even so, I had trouble motivating myself to do it.

## Entities
Once it was finished, it was much easier for me to finish my implementation of berry bushes. Previously, I only had one real type of entity, an IntelligentEntity. Rabbits are this type of entity, and soon the Hunter will be. An IntelligentEntity is one that has AI of some kind, meaning the main game loop needs to update the entity pretty frequently in order for it to do things and seem intelligent.

With the introduction of berry bushes, I needed a new type of entity. Bushes don't have AI per se, but they do still need to be updated every once in a while in order to grow berries (and eventually, to grow in size or to die, for example). So I created a new type of entity, a StaticEntity (for now). This type of entity is similar to the IntelligentEntity in that Events get enqueued regularly for each instance of it. In this way, berry bushes are able to grow new berries every 20 seconds or so.

The berries can also be picked, but no one is able to pick them right now. My next goal is to add Hunter AI that will allow them to path to a bush, pick a berry, and eat it.

## Goals

I think I'm getting close to what I'd consider to be POC v1.0. Once I have a Hunter who is able walk around, eat berries, and starve to death, then I'll be at v1.0. The most primitive version of an actual working proof of concept. 

Wew.

Welp, see you later.