# October 27 2020
## SDD
The premise of the game is that the hunter is trying to survive in a hostile world. In order for the hunter's plight to be interesting, the world must be sufficiently hostile; if it's too easy for the hunter to survive, then the player won't really care. But if the world is so hostile that the hunter has no chance to survive (ha), that too will have uninteresting results.

So a balance between hostility and survivability must be struck. It occurred to me today that I can incorporate this balance into a development cycle. Any software engineer will be familiar with the concept of Test-Driven Design (TDD). Generally, the idea is that when you want to write code to do something, you write your tests first. The tests express what your code should do, and guarantee the outcome. The tests will be broken at first, but that's fine because the next step is to write your code such that the tests succeed. The result is a simple-but-rewarding cycle of development where you express your goals (write tests), then fulfill your goals (write the code).

So what if I took that sort of cycle, where the completion of one step sort of compells you to complete the next step, which in turn sets you up to perform the first step again, and I applied it to improving the hunter's ability to survive in a hostile world? Here's what I think that would look like, described as a set of states that result in actions:

```
1. STATE: Hunter is able to survive 90+ percent of game runs.
2. ACTION: Make the world more hostile until...
3. STATE: Hunter dies in 90+ percent of game runs.
4. ACTION: Improve hunter's ability to survive until...
(repeat step 1)
```

These steps are worded in a way that allows the whole cycle to be repeated, probably not indefinitely, but certainly repeated multiple times, with each iteration improving the fidelity of the world/ecosystem as well as the fidelity of the hunter and their behavior. And using this cycle, I could iteratively improve the world in ways that would compell me to improve the hunter to exceed the improvements of the world, which would then compell me to improve the world and so on.

So of course the name for this would be Survival-Driven Design. Goofy, but appropriate. And also extremely niche. This specific set of steps would not be applicable to the vast majority of games, but the general idea of cyclically improving one part of the game, which compells you to improve another part of the game (etc.), probably has much more general applicability, if one is watching for opportunities to use it.

I think in one of my upcoming POC version, I'll try out this idea and see if it's fun.

Welp, see you later.