# July 21 2020
## Brainstorming
Throughout the day today my mind would wander from what I was supposed to be doing and I would think about Hunter instead. I came up with quite a few good ideas, and one big idea that I'm very excited about, but don't want to write about yet. 

Here are a few of the ideas I've been kicking around:

### Extremely configurable world parameters
When the player starts the simulation, they could modify a bunch of parameters at the beginning that will affect how the simulation plays out. For example, give the hunter better or worse equipment, give the hunter better/worse skills, start them in various states of starving or thirsty, with a camp already set up, or not. 

The player could also tweak parameters of the world. Not only how much land/water/forest there might be, but also how many rabbits, how quickly do the rabbits reproduce, how many wolves, how quickly to they reproduce, and so on. This would be fun because you could initalize the world in a state and then just see what happens. See how the different entities interact. 

For example, perhaps you create a super experienced hunter, but a world with very few rabbits and berries, and tons of wolves. Or a low-experience hunter, but on a map with only rabbits that reproduce very quickly. Sounds amusing. 

I imagine it might be fun to start the game running in the evening, then let it run all night and see how the world looks in the morning. Is the hunter still alive? Is the map chock full of rabbits?

### Inheritable traits and natural selection
What if every living thing had inherent stats, such as strength, speed, alertness, constitution? And what if entities of the same species could mate and reproduce, creating offspring whose stats are based on the parent's stats, but with an RNG factor, allowing the chance that those stats improve (but also with a chance to get worse). Given enough time, large enough numbers, and environmental selection pressures, this would cause natural selection to happen, potentially creating an arms race between competing species.

Seems really hard to test, though. :)

### Hunter heirarchy of needs
For the hunter to have reasonable behavior, they must be given a set of goals that make sense for the situation they're in. The goals also need to seem "human". So I started thinking about a heirarchy of needs that the hunter would need to satisfy to make them seem realistic. Here's my first pass:

* water (thirst)
* food (hunger)
* sleep (energy)
* shelter (health, safety)
* stockpile of supplies (safety)
* exploration (safety, amusement)
* play (amusement)

By no means well-thought-out, but it's interesting to contemplate how these needs would inform the hunter's AI.

## Roguelike Tutorial
There's an excellent tutorial on how to create a simple Roguelike in Python available [here|http://rogueliketutorials.com/tutorials/tcod/v2/]. It's a 14-part series, and I'm on the fourth section, now. I can already render a window with a controllable ASCII character. This should serve as an excellent basis for the game that I want to create. I'm not sure yet whether I will try to finish the entire tutorial before starting on my game, or go only so far, then branch off and start building on my own. We'll see, I guess.

Welp, see you later.