# July 25 2020
The last several days I've been working on following the python tcod tutorial for making a roguelike. I feel that I've gotten far enough in the tutorial that I can branch off and start doing my own thing, and refer back to the tutorial if necessary.

## Procedural map generation
I was getting a little tired of simply following the tutorial, so I also spent a good deal of time working on my procedural map generator. This included adding a feature for allowing the generator to iterate through the map in different patterns as it does its generation. Before, it could only iterate through each cell linearly, starting in the (0,0) corner. Now it also supports iterating randomly (shuffle). The shuffle iteration pattern had a significant impact on how maps turned out, but not in the way I expected. Overall, the maps tend to have a lot more water, given the same config values. I had to crank up the config values for land, mountains, and forests to get the amount of water down, and even then there ended up being quite a bit of water.

This is due, in large part, to how each cell that is generated factors in surrounding cells to determine what cell type it should be (land, mountain, forest, water). This means that, if the entire map defaults to water, the map is likely to continue being mostly water. Same for if the map were to default to being land.

I was able to tweak the numbers in a way that caused the maps to look sort of like swamps or marshes, with a good amount of land mass and forest, but lots of small bodies of water.

At this point the code for my map generator is fairly complex. It's easy to think adding more complexity will make the resulting maps better, but this most recent exercise has helped me realize that relatively small changes to the generation algorithm can have unexpected results. Not necessarily bad results, though. This makes me wonder if it would be a good exercise to try implementing a significantly different generation algorithm, just to see what happens. Maybe I'll try that soon.

## Goals and a proof of concept
It's easy to get lost in though when thinking about where this project could go, and much more difficult to take discreet steps to make the project actually go somewhere. So I'm devoting some time to setting extremely specific goals that can be achieved in a relatively small amount of time.

My first goal, Proof of Concept version 1 (POC v1), will have just a few major components:
1) A turn-based game loop and engine based off of the tutorial code.
2) A hand-crafted map.
3) A hunter than can be controlled with the arrow keys.
4) Hunter collision detection with mountains and water.

While technically 3 and 4 do not align very well with my future vision of this game, they allow me to not stray too far from the tutorial game structure for v1.

Keeping the steps small is especially important early on in this project so that I don't get overwhelmed and give up!

Welp, see you later.