# October 13 2020
## Proof of Concept v0.7
I finished POC v0.7 today. It's been just under a month since I released the last POC version, so this was a long one. A lot of real-world things contributed to this being a slow one. Wildfires threatening the Pacific Northwest was one problem, and I was also very busy at work resulting in me not having the mental energy to make progress on Hunter in the mornings and evenings.

There was one task in particular that I lost a lot of momentum on, the task to improve rabbit AI. This was a surprise to me since I thought I was really going to enjoy that task. Some of the initial conceptual work was indeed interesting as I organized my thoughts around creature simulation tiers. But the actual implementation of the rabbit AI improvements turned out to be a real drag because virtually all the code for it was already written in Hunter, it was just unavailable to use for the rabbit since it was written in a hunter-specific way. This means that the vast majority of the work for this task involved refactoring to make the functionality more general and usable.

This was very important work to do, but it was not particularly fun. It felt a lot like a chore, since I wasn't really challenging my mind and solving problems, but instead was just slogging through refactor work. My main takeaway is to watch out for this in the future, just so I understand what I'm getting into. That way I can be sure to properly balance a POC version with fun tasks versus chore/tech-debt tasks.

## Improvements

To keep things moving, I'm not going to go into too much detail about what was included in this version, but here's the short list:

* Improved rabbit AI
  * Grazes on grass
  * Sleeps in burrow during the day
* Improved hunter AI
  * Better searching
  * Better action prioritization
* Revised hunger/health/energy system
  * Added status effects like Starvation and SleepDeprivation
* Fixed a number of smaller issues with both rabbit and hunter behavior

## Future
POC v0.8 is focused mostly around reintroducing procedural generation into the game. The procedural map generation is written in Ruby, so we'll see if I end up wanting to port that or simply incorporate the ruby script into the map generation.

There is also a major issue with the game loop and how ingame time is progressed that is causing the game speed to not scale uniformly when game speed is increased. This will be extremely important to fix in order to allow proper game balance and testing in the future.

Welp, see you later.