# September 17 2020
## Creature Simulations and Tiers
As I've been working on improving the rabbit AI, I've had to think much more deeply about how to create a convincing simulation of a life form. My task in the sprint simply states "Improve Rabbit AI." Obviously this leaves a ton of room for me to decide what would be a sufficient level of improvement. I've begun to research rabbit behaviors, and it's become clear that there are many tiers of robustness I could add in to the rabbit simulation. Obviously the same goes for other creatures that I'll eventually add to the game. And when adding a new creature to an ecosystem, it's pretty unlikely that'll I'll jump straight to implementing a super high-fidelity simulation of the creature. It's far more likely that I'll add the creature in a greatly-simplified form first, then, over time, layer in more and more complex behaviors until I'm satisfied with the complexity and the behavior.

I can already imagine a couple of advantages to this approach:
1. It will surely be easier to implement a bit at a time. Small iterative changes are the name of the game, and at the very least the cognitive overhead will be more manageable if I implement a creature simulation a bit at a time.
2. As the simulation progresses, there will soon be simulated ecosystems, and these systems will each have their own delicate balance. Introducing a new creature in stages, starting with simple and progressively getting more complex, will likely be less disruptive to the balance of the already-existing ecosystem.

So my current thinking is that I can classify a given implementation of a creature simulation in terms of a set of tiers, where lower tiers of course having lower fidelity, and higher tiers having higher fidelity. Here's an example of how I might break down Rabbit tiers:

### **Rabbit Tier 0**
- none (not implemented)

### **Rabbit Tier 1**
- exists
- moves randomly
- randomly performs other actions
- can be killed (but does not die of old age)

### **Rabbit Tier 2**
- sleeping, but with no energy simulation
- eating, but with no hunger simulation
- no reproduction (and no parent behavior)
- completely independent (no group behavior/interaction with other rabbits)
- no awareness of surroundings (doesn't flee from predators)
- can sleep/hide in burrow, but cannot dig burrow<br/>(spawns with burrow already dug)

### **Rabbit Tier 3**
- can starve to death
- must eat to regain hunger
- must sleep to regain energy

### **Rabbit Tier 4**
- reproduction
- parent behavior
- random death from old age

### **Rabbit Tier 5**
- stats/attributes (e.g. strength, stamina)
- bleeding, fractures, etc
- simple group behaviors

This is just a rough sketch of what each tier may look like for rabbits, but I imagine the tier list for other creatures will look pretty similar for the most part. My intention for this tier list is simply to help me organize my thinking about creature simulations, and especially help me in planning future work. And what falls under what tier is really just a gut-feeling, especially at the point I'm at right now, where I've only partially implemented one creature. I'm certain that as I develop more creature simulations, my thoughts and strategy around tiers lists will solidify quite a bit.

I can even imagine that there may be portions of a creature simulation that have their own tiers. For example, the systems for modeling hunger, sleep, and awareness could each have several tiers. Here's what that might look like:

| | Hunger | Sleep | Awareness |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Tier 0 | - not implemented | - not implemented | - not implemented |
| Tier 1 | - rudimentary hunger<br/>- eat randomly<br/>- no hunger stat simulated | - rudimentary sleep<br/>- sleep randomly or at specific times of day<br/>- no energy stat simulated | - reacts when predators are nearby<br/>- able to flee and hide |
| Tier 2 | - hunger stat simulated<br/>- must eat to recover hunger<br/>- search for food and eat when hunger is low<br/>- low hunger has deleterious effects | - energy stat simulated<br/>- must sleep to recover energy<br/>- sleep when energy is low<br/>- low energy has deleterious effects | - interacts with others of its kind<br/>- able to fight opponents |
| Tier 3 | - search for food (but dont eat) even when hunger isnt low<br/>- store food for future use (as appropriate) | - energy recover when sleeping is variable<br/>- certain conditions increase or decrease energy recovery<br/>(e.g. environmental factors, comfort, safety) | ? |
| Tier 4 | - require variety in diet to be healthy | ? | ? |
<br/><br/>

Rabbit Tier 1 wouldn't necessarily correspond to Awareness Tier 1 i.e. I wouldn't require Rabbits to implement Awareness Tier 1 before I consider rabbits to be at tier 1. Instead, the tiers of each creature and system have no relation to each other, and are essentially arbitrary.

## Ecosystems
When it comes to developing an ecosystem, I think I could implement creature simulation tiers in an order like this:
1. Rabbits Tier 1
2. Rabbits Tier 2
3. Wolves Tier 1
4. Deer Tier 1
5. Wolves Tier 2
6. Deer Tier 2
7. Rabbits Tier 3 (reproduction)
8. Owls Tier 1 (help quell the rabbit pop.)
9. Wolves Tier 3
10. Owls Tier 2
11. Deer Tier 3

In this way, I could introduce (relatively) small changes to the ecosystem at a time, then tweak and balance. This will keep from upsetting the ecosystem too much all at once. This will allow for iterative development of an ecosystem.

Finally, here's a very course list of things that might translate to different tiers. Keeping this around so I don't forget.
- reproduction
- hunger system
- die of old age
- genetics
- stats/attributes (e.g. strength, stamina)
- health
- basic actions
- complex actions
- simple group behaviors (e.g. squabble, play)
- complex group behaviors (e.g. herd migration)
- long-term goals
- health systems (bleeding, fractures, limb loss, individual wound healing)
- fear/response to environment
- memory of important locations (e.g. food sources)
- nutrition (need certain variety in diet)

Welp, see you later.