# March 25 2021
## UIs are hard and stuff

Well, I had to relearn a lesson in the last couple of weeks.

I packed a ton of stuff into this version, and the very first task I took ended up being pretty tough. My goal was to add an "escape" menu that has a few buttons on it. In the course of writing the code for this, I decided that I'd like to have hover states on the buttons and I'd also like to have a functioning exit button.

Creating the escape menu with a few buttons was simple enough, and I had that working within a day or two. However, I soon realized that creating hover states and functioning buttons was not going to be as easy as I thought.

The difficulty of this task stems from the fact that, when drawing UI panels and buttons, I first create a panel box, then inside that box I, line-by-line, write out the contents of that box. For example, the first line of the UI panel has this text (for the top border):

```
-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-
```

Then I add another few lines, and it looks like this (for empty space and side borders):

```
-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-
.                                 .
-                                 -
.                                 .
```

Then I add a few lines so it looks like there's a button:

```
-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-
.                                 .
-                                 -
.                                 .
-        ----------------         -
.       |     Button     |        .
-        ----------------         -
```

Then the last few lines to complete the square of my UI panel:

```
-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-
.                                 .
-                                 -
.                                 .
-        ----------------         -
.       |     Button     |        .
-        ----------------         -
.                                 .
-                                 -
.                                 .
-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-
```

So to draw this panel, I need to write 11 lines of text to the empty panel. But that only gives the appearance of a button. I still have to somehow detect hovering and clicking on the button. And I can't do that without knowing the buttons x-y coordinates. 

To calculate the buttons x-y coords, I first have to take the x-y of the top left of the UI panel. Then to get the y position, I need to count the number of lines of text that come before the first line of the button and add it to the y position of the panel. To get the x position, I have to count the number of characters that come before the button on the left side of top button string, and add that to the x position of the panel.

And all of that just gets me the x-y of the top left of the button. I have to do a similar set of calculations to get the bottom right x-y of the button.

Once I have those, I can create a "hitbox" on a 2D grid. I decided to create a grid separate from the map grid, and I called it a UI collision layer. So any time I want to render a button, I display the button on screen and use the top-left x-y and bottom-right x-y to draw a rectangle on my UI collision layer where the button is. Finally, when the player hovers or clicks, I process the mouse events and check the position of the mouse cursor against the collision layer, and am then able to determine if the button is hit.

Writing the code for all this wasn't really difficult, but it was quite laborious and time-consuming. And knowing that was going to be the case, I really dragged my feet on this task. So that's the lesson I had to relearn: don't bite off more than you can chew; and if you do, maybe take a break from the hard task and hit some "low-hanging fruit" to help keep up momentum.

Welp, see you later.