# May 2 2021
## Roadmap and Things
After a lengthy detour into adding UI elements and improving the game presentation, I am excited to get back into developing the ecosystem. And my main plan for v1.2 is to add deer and improve wolves.

Deer will make a nice addition to the ecosystem. Like rabbits, they are grazers so they don't require any prey. At the same time they can serve as prey for both wolves and the hunter.  I will be adding both does and bucks, and the does will follow the buck as he roams. And while rabbits, currently, simply die to the wolf (without even trying to get away!), I plan to make deer interactions with wolves more complex. Bucks will attempt to fight wolves (and maybe does will sometimes get spicy too!), and deer will also have the ability to spot wolves and flee.

In addition, I will be upgrading wolves to tier 2, which in this case means I will start simulating hunter and enery. Sleep behavior will be extremely simple, with wolves simply sleeping wherever they are when they're tired.

## Actions and Cooldowns
I've already finished my first task for v1.2, so I thought I'd mention that here. I made changes to the entity action system that allow all actions to have their own independent cooldowns. Previously, every entity had an "update interval" that dictated how much time would elapse before that entity could take another action. This resulted in extremely stilted behavior. For example, walking 10 feet took the hunter just as long as searching the area for food, which took just as long as aiming the bow and shooting at a rabbit, etc. When I implemented this last year, I knew I'd have to address this issue eventually.

Well, now it's done. The settings file as a section for each entity that allows me to specify a different cooldown for the different actions. This means a rabbit can now run faster than a wolf! Amazing.

Another oddity of my old implementation is that entity progression and actions were tied to the same event in time. So any time the hunter took an action, the hunter's state (hunger, energy, etc) would progress 1 tick as well. This was very problematic because if I, for example, wanted to make the hunter run faster, they'd also end up getting hungrier and more tired faster (which I suppose kind of makes sense in this example, but isn't ideal overall). This tight coupling was definitely going to cause problems later, so I'm glad I had the opportunity to correct it now.

Welp, see you later.