# May 14 2021
## Movement, Action Queues, and FEAR
I just added the most complex behavior I have developed so far: deer fleeing from wolves and the hunter. There were quite a few challenges in attempting this, and the work forced me to think deeply about the future of entity action queues and how they will (or won't!) enable complex behaviors down the line.

In my initial implementation of movement, I would find the path to a destination, then, all at once, append a movement action for each step along that path. So if a deer wanted to roam to tile 5 steps away, I would add 5 movement actions to the deer action queue at once. This was handy because I could easily give the deer a series of instructions on how to get to a destination, then at the same time I could also tell the deer what to do once it got to the destination. For example, I might queue up the following actions:

- move to (3,4)
- move to (4,4)
- move to (4,5)
- graze

I went this route because it was easy to implement, and it worked very well for the hunter and rabbits, who had pretty basic movement behaviors where they simply went to a location on the map and performed an action. Then I added wolves, who needed the ability to pursue a rabbit and eat it. This was the first point where I started to move away from the original model of queueing all the movement commands up at once. Queuing 5 movement commands and executing them all in a row doesn't work very well when you're pursuing a moving target! So to get around this, I created a pursue action that re-pathed every time it was performed, moved one step, then if the target is reached, the entity would perform the intended action (attack in this case), and if the target isn't reached yet, enqueue another pursue action and repeat these steps.

So essentially, the pursue action was calling itself recursively until a condition was met. And while it felt useful and slick, the significance of this approach didn't occur to me right away.

Fast forward a bit and I've added deer to the game. My next undertaking was to give deer the ability to flee from wolves and the hunter. My initial approach to this was to give the deer a ScanForThreatsAction, and to enqueue that fairly frequently at certain intervals when the opportunity arose. For example, if the deer decided they were hungry and wanted to graze, the would first scan for threats, and only graze if the coast was clear. I also had them scan for threats when they finished moving all the way to a destination, such as when they finished roaming.

And while this setup makes sense on paper, it didn't really have the effect that I was going for. In particular, I was seeing frequent instances where a deer would waltz right by a wolf and wouldn't react to the wolf's presence until after they had passed. I quickly realized this was because I wasn't having them scan for threats often enough. When roaming, they would choose a destination and enqueue 5 or so movement actions followed by a scan-for-threats action. This meant that if a deer happened to walk right by a wolf, it wouldn't even notice!

While recognizing the problem was pretty easy, solving it was not because of how I was enqueueing all movement actions at once. It turns out this was resulting in pretty rigid movement behavior, and I came to realize that, going forward, this approach was not going to allow entities to react quickly to their surroundings. The most obvious fix is simply to put the scan-for-threats logic inside of the MovementAction class. However, I felt that would quickly lead to the MovementAction class getting overloaded with things that aren't really related to movement.

Fortunately, I had the solution already right under my nose: PursueAction. I could refactor entity movement and have the MovementAction class simply call itself recursively until the destination was reached. To do this, I needed conditional logic to see if a path was already found: if not, find one; but if so just use that (and pass it to the next MovementAction when enqueueing it).

This allowed me to solve my deer conundrum because now I could have my deer move one tile, scan for threats, then move again if the coast is clear, or flee instead. Like this:

- enqueue movement action
- perform movement action
    - move
    - enqueue scan-for-threats action
- perform scan-for-threats-action
    - if threats_found
        - enqueue flee-action
    - else
        - enqueue movement action
- repeat...

And this was enabled by passing the path from the MovementAction into the ScanForThreatsAction, which wouldn't use the path for anything; it would simply pass the path along to the next MovementAction (assuming FleeAction wasn't enqueued instead).

So with this new system, the deer could check for threats after every single move, and this had exactly the effect that I wanted: a deer already enroute to a location would immediately spot a wolf and flee when it crossed into vision range.

This refactor was fairly laborious due to having five different entities that had movement actions of some kind, but there was a bigger problem than that: I needed a new way to tell entities what to do once they reached their location. Remember, I used to tell an entity where to go and what to do when it got there all at once by enqueueing a bunch of movement action followed by something else like a graze action. But now I was only able to tell an entity where to go, and it somehow needed to figure out what to do at the destination.

Well, not exactly. The dumb-but-effective solution (for now at least), is to simply pass a `final_action` to the MovementAction for it to enqueue once it's finished following the path.

I'm feeling really good about the potential for expressing complex behavior using this system. And for the most part, I feel like it more closely matches how living things really work: we might identify a path to follow to get to our intended destination, but we take one step at a time, and at any point in the process of travelling there something may interrupt us, forcing us to react and choose a different path or do something else entirely.

It also opens up more possibilities for entities to be flexible in the future, which I think will be very important as I start to layer in more and more complex behaviors.

Welp, see you later.